In the last lecture, we fixed some errors
but I mentioned that there are also more subtle issues in our application right now.
Let's start with the caches here.
Now the static cache is occupied or filled with things we pre-cached, the dynamic cache obviously populated
with things we stored after we fetch them from the network.
Now one issue we have is that currently, we're storing everything in the dynamic cache we fetched, right?
Everything.
We don't check if it makes sense to store it, like for example here, this request to HTTP bin and get some
content, here
it of course fulfills a purpose,
we can see that card because we're not really using the value here but imagine you reach out to a server
where you fetch some JSON data and that data changes frequently.
Now all of a sudden, you maybe don't want to cache that because then you always get old data.
Now there are some caching strategies to cater for that but still, caching JSON data is not really what
this is for, is not really what you want to use the cache storage for,
you should generally aim to store files there, not JSON files, simply images, CSS, JavaScript,
HTML, that is what the cache storage is for.
Now we'll take care about how and where to cache JSON data or any data you fetch later in this course,
for now I'll leave it like this
but I wanted to bring it to your attention and we will fix it later.
Another crucial issue we have is, well let me show it to you.
Let's go to the feed.js
file where we create that card and let's change something about that card.
Let's maybe give this card title text element, this San Francisco trip text here, let's give it some white
text to maybe make it easier to read.
So here I will simply access card title text element and set the style, the color to white using Javascript.
If we go back to the application, make sure you have internet access, so make sure you're not offline
and reload, you'll see it stays black. Now under application, no new service worker is waiting to get installed
because we didn't change the service worker code, so therefore the old file is still equal to the new or
current file and hence Chrome doesn't try to install the new one.
This has one crucial implication, we're fetching the asset from the cache and in that cache here,
we still have our, well cached version of the feed.js file which of course doesn't have our change
in it. Now we would pre-cache the file and add it
if we installed a new service worker but this is not happening here because we didn't change the service
worker.
Now of course one thing we can do is, we can add some code to the service worker to force an update,
let's do that.
Let's make this very simple by adding a comment here, to simply just change the file.
Now if we save this and we reload the application here, a new service worker is trying to get activated,
let's activate it here,
therefore it will install the new
asset and now it's white and if we reload, it's still white.
Obviously this is not how you should do it,
this is not how you want to update your files.
We change something in a normal Javascript file and we add a comment to the service worker,
definitely not a good practice,
instead we want to manage cache versions. You do need to update your service worker
if you change your other Javascript code, there is no way around this because you have cached versions of
your old code,
if you change something about your app, you need to update your service worker
but of course you don't want to do that by adding a comment to it, instead
a common way of fixing or handling this is to give your caches names or versions. It's named
static already,
let's maybe name it static-v2. This will now ensure that for one we change the service worker
file but that we also cache all the updated files or all the files actually into a new sub-cache
and by doing this, we ensure that we always update our cache if we update a file because we change the
version number here,
hence a new service worker gets installed and we stored the updated files in the new cache.
Why do we use a new cache and not use the old one?
Well besides the fact that we need to change the service worker file, if we store it in the old cache, somehow
the old cache might still be used by the page because keep in mind, the installation step executes immediately,
we're waiting for activation not for installation.
So if we overwrite or change something in the old cache, we might change the cache which is currently
getting used by the web application and we don't want to do that,
we don't want to break the application because we mess around with the cache,
hence we store it in a new one.
Of course this means that we add more and more sub-caches but I'll walk you through how to clean it
up in the next lectures too.
So for now, let's go with that approach,
so we not only change the feed.js file and edit this white text,
let's change it back to black here to see that this works,
we also changed the service worker file and stored the static assets in a new cache.
Let's save this and let's go back to our application,
let's reload it and go back to application here too. You see installation is running
and you already see that in the cache, even though I haven't activated the new service worker,
we get this new static-v2 version which holds the same content as static but behind the scenes, we
know that the feed.js
file will be updated.
So now therefore if I reload this page, nothing happens obviously because the service worker isn't updated
but if I skip waiting here and sometimes this just doesn't work,
so if I open a new console in that case then, it still doesn't work.
Why? Well this is related to us having multiple caches here, we have static and static-v2 and feed.js
is found in both. Now in the fetch here, we just check if it's present,
if the request is present in any of our caches. So therefore it finds that the old static cache too and
still serves us the old version
which is why we definitely need to clean up that old version.
Let's see how we clean up old caches in the next lecture.